Metric spaces (#1162)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/metric-spaces/isometry-premetric-spaces.lagda.md

# Isometries between premetric spaces

```agda
module metric-spaces.isometry-premetric-spaces where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.positive-rational-numbers

open import foundation.binary-transport
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.function-extensionality
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import metric-spaces.premetric-spaces
```

</details>

## Idea

A function between [premetric spaces](metric-spaces.premetric-spaces.md) is an
{{#concept "isometry" Disambiguation="between premetric spaces" Agda=is-isometry-Premetric-Space}}

> if it transports [premetric structures](metric-spaces.premetric-structures.md).

Reviewer: What does "transport" mean here? Do you mean preserves and reflects?

                  ( structure-Premetric-Space A d x y)
                  ( structure-Premetric-Space B d (f x) (f y)))))

  is-isometry-Premetric-Space : UU (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l2')
  is-isometry-Premetric-Space =
    type-Prop is-isometry-prop-Premetric-Space

  is-prop-is-isometry-Premetric-Space : is-prop is-isometry-Premetric-Space
  is-prop-is-isometry-Premetric-Space =
    is-prop-type-Prop is-isometry-prop-Premetric-Space
```

### The type of isometries between premetric spaces

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l1' l2' : Level}
  (A : Premetric-Space l1 l2) (B : Premetric-Space l1' l2')
  where

  isometry-Premetric-Space : UU (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l1' ⊔ l2')
  isometry-Premetric-Space = type-subtype (is-isometry-prop-Premetric-Space A B)
```

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l1' l2' : Level}
  (A : Premetric-Space l1 l2) (B : Premetric-Space l1' l2')
  (f : isometry-Premetric-Space A B)
  where

  map-isometry-Premetric-Space : function-carrier-type-Premetric-Space A B
  map-isometry-Premetric-Space = pr1 f

  is-isometry-map-isometry-Premetric-Space :
    is-isometry-Premetric-Space A B map-isometry-Premetric-Space
  is-isometry-map-isometry-Premetric-Space = pr2 f
```

## Properties

> ### Equality of isometries in premetric spaces is equivalent to homotopies between their carrier maps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Equality of isometries in premetric spaces is characterized by homotopies between their carrier maps
```

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l1' l2' : Level}
  (A : Premetric-Space l1 l2) (B : Premetric-Space l1' l2')
  (f g : isometry-Premetric-Space A B)
  where

  equiv-eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space :
    ( f ＝ g) ≃
    ( map-isometry-Premetric-Space A B f ~
      map-isometry-Premetric-Space A B g)
  equiv-eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space =
    equiv-funext ∘e
    extensionality-type-subtype'
      ( is-isometry-prop-Premetric-Space A B)
      ( f)
      ( g)

  eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space :
    ( map-isometry-Premetric-Space A B f ~
      map-isometry-Premetric-Space A B g) →
    ( f ＝ g)
  eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space =
    map-inv-equiv equiv-eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space
```

> ### The composition of isometries between premetric spaces is a isometric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Composition of isometries between premetric spaces
```

# Isometries between premetric spaces

```agda
module metric-spaces.isometry-premetric-spaces where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.positive-rational-numbers

open import foundation.binary-transport
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.function-extensionality
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.homotopies
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import metric-spaces.premetric-spaces
```

</details>

## Idea

A function `f` between [premetric spaces](metric-spaces.premetric-spaces.md) is
an
{{#concept "isometry" Disambiguation="between premetric spaces" Agda=is-isometry-Premetric-Space}}
if any of the following equivalent conditions holds:

- it preserves and reflects

>   [`d`-neighborhoods](metric-spaces.premetric-structures.md);

Author: Is there a way to redirect the url specifically to the `#concept` of `d`-neighborhood I defined in the `premetric-structures` module?

Reviewer: I don't think so; this is certainly not something we've been doing so far. Following the library's principle that we should have one concept per file it has always been appropriate to just link to a file since the appropriate concept will be mentioned in the Idea-section of that file.

  where

  equiv-eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space :
    ( f ＝ g) ≃
    ( map-isometry-Premetric-Space A B f ~
      map-isometry-Premetric-Space A B g)
  equiv-eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space =
    equiv-funext ∘e
    extensionality-type-subtype'
      ( is-isometry-prop-Premetric-Space A B)
      ( f)
      ( g)

  eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space :
    ( map-isometry-Premetric-Space A B f ~
      map-isometry-Premetric-Space A B g) →
    ( f ＝ g)
  eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space =
    map-inv-equiv equiv-eq-htpy-map-isometry-Premetric-Space
```

### Composition of isometries between premetric spaces

```agda
module _
  {l1a l2a l1b l2b l1c l2c : Level}
  (A : Premetric-Space l1a l2a)
  (B : Premetric-Space l1b l2b)
  (C : Premetric-Space l1c l2c)
  (g : function-carrier-type-Premetric-Space B C)
  (f : function-carrier-type-Premetric-Space A B)
  where

  preserves-isometry-comp-function-Premetric-Space :
    is-isometry-Premetric-Space B C g →
    is-isometry-Premetric-Space A B f →
    is-isometry-Premetric-Space A C (g ∘ f)
  preserves-isometry-comp-function-Premetric-Space H K d x y =
    (H d (f x) (f y)) ∘iff (K d x y)
```

> ### The inverse of an isometric equivalence between premetric spaces is isometric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The inverse of an isometric equivalence between premetric spaces is an isometry
```
